## Practice Exam 101-110

https://ghcertified.com/questions/actions/

---

Q101: How do you ensure that Upload Failure test report step is executed only if Run Tests step fails?

✅ Correct answer:

```yaml
- name: Run Tests
  id: run-tests
  run: npm run test

- name: Upload Failure test report
  if: always() && steps.run-tests.outcome == 'failure'
  run: actions/upload-artifact@v3
  with:
    name: test-report
    path: test-reports.html
```

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/expressions#status-check-functions)

---

### Q102: Which context holds information about the event that triggered a workflow run?

- github.event
- github.job
- `jobs.<job_id>`.result
- github.repository

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/triggering-a-workflow#using-event-information)

✅ Correct answer: 👉 github.event

---

### Q103: In GitHub Actions, if you define both branches and paths filter, what is the effect on the workflow execution?

- the workflow will only run when both branches and paths are satisfied

- the workflow will not run when both branches and paths are satisfied

- the workflow will run when either branches or paths are satisfied, but will only apply the matching filter

- the workflow will run when either branches or paths are satisfied

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#onpull_requestpull_request_targetbranchesbranches-ignore)

✅ Correct answer: 👉 the workflow will only run when both branches and paths are satisfied

---

### Q104: What is the recommended practice for treating environment variables in GitHub Actions, regardless of the operating system and shell used?

- ignore case sensitivity as GitHub Actions handles it automatically

- treat environment variables as case-sensitive

- depend on the behavior of the operating system in use

- use only uppercase letters for environment variable names

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#setting-an-environment-variable)

✅ Correct answer: 👉 treat environment variables as case-sensitive

---

### Q105: Which of the following statements accurately describes the behavior of workflow jobs referencing an environment's protection rules?

- workflow jobs will fail if protection rules are configured

- workflow jobs won't start until all the environment's protection rules pass

- workflow jobs will start immediately and protection rules are evaluated during execution

- workflow jobs will start if at least one protection rule passes

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment

✅ Correct answer: 👉 workflow jobs won't start until all the environment's protection rules pass

---

### Q106: What is the purpose of the restore-keys parameter in actions/cache in GitHub Actions?

- specify the location of the cached files
- enable cross-OS cache functionality
- provide alternative keys to use in case of a cache miss
- indicate whether a cache hit occurred

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/caching-dependencies-to-speed-up-workflows#managing-caches)

✅ Correct answer: 👉 provide alternative keys to use in case of a cache miss

---

### Q107: Which variable would you set to true in order to enable step debug logging?

- ACTIONS_STEP_DEBUG
- ACTIONS_WORKFLOW_DEBUG
- ACTIONS_RUNNER_DEBUG
- ACTIONS_JOB_DEBUG

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/monitoring-and-troubleshooting-workflows/enabling-debug-logging

✅ Correct answer: 👉 ACTIONS_STEP_DEBUG

---

### Q108: Which configuration is appropriate for triggering a workflow to run on webhook events related to check_run actions?

```yaml
#1
on:
check_run:
filter: [requested]

#2
on:
check_run:
types: [rerequested, completed]

#3
on:
check_run:
types: [started]

#4
on:
check_run:
type: [closed]
```

💡 [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#check_run)

✅ Correct answer:

```yaml
on:
  check_run:
    types: [rerequested, completed]
```

---

### Q109: What is the purpose of the timeout-minutes keyword in a step?

- it limits the execution time for individual step

- it defines the time interval for individual commands within a step

- it specifies the maximum duration a job is allowed to run

- it sets the timeout for waiting on external events before proceeding to the next step

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstepstimeout-minutes

✅ Correct answer: 👉 it limits the execution time for individual step

---

### Q110: Dave is creating a templated workflow for his organization. Where must Dave store the workflow files and associated metadata files for the templated workflow?

- inside a directory named workflow-templates within a repository named .github

- inside a directory named .github/org-templates

- inside a directory named .github/workflow-templates

- inside a directory named workflow-templates within the current repository

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/creating-starter-workflows-for-your-organization

✅ Correct answer:

👉 inside a directory named workflow-templates within a repository named .github
