# Practice Test 41-50

https://ghcertified.com/questions/actions/

---

Q41: When should you use caching?

- When you want to reuse files that do change often between jobs or workflow runs, such as build dependencies from a package management system.

- When you want to save binaries produced by a build job to use in a subsequent deploy job to deploy a new version of an application

- When you want to save files produced by a job to view after a workflow run has ended, such as built binaries or build logs.

- When you want to reuse files that don't change often between jobs or workflow runs, such as build dependencies from a package management system.

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/caching-dependencies-to-speed-up-workflows#comparing-artifacts-and-dependency-caching

---

Q42: When should you use artifacts? (Select two.)

- Use artifacts to reuse files that don't change often between jobs or workflow runs, such as build dependencies from a package management system.

- Use artifacts to save binaries produced by a build job to use in a subsequent deploy job to deploy a new version of an application

- Use artifacts to create new versions of your application together with release notes, mentions and/or contributors

- Use artifacts to save files produced by a job to view after a workflow run has ended, such as test results or build logs.

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/storing-workflow-data-as-artifacts#about-workflow-artifacts

---

Q43: If a workflow runs on a feature-a branch, can it restore caches created in the default main branch?

- Yes, all branches can restore caches created on the default branch

- No, caches can only be restored from the same branch

- Yes, all caches can be accessed by workflows on any branch within the same repository

- Yes but only if no files were changed on feature-a branch

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/caching-dependencies-to-speed-up-workflows#restrictions-for-accessing-a-cache

---

Q44: To access an artifact that was created in another, previously triggered workflow run you can:

- Use the actions/download-artifact action with elevated permissions.
- Use the actions/download-artifact action and make sure the artifact is not expired
- Use the actions/upload-artifact action.
- You cannot access artifacts that were created in a different workflow run

💡 https://github.com/actions/download-artifact?tab=readme-ov-file#download-artifacts-from-other-workflow-runs-or-repositories

---

Q45: What should you use to store coverage reports or screenshots generated during a workflow that runs automated testing for a repository?

- Releases
- Artifacts
- Caches
- Packages

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/storing-workflow-data-as-artifacts#comparing-artifacts-and-dependency-caching

---

Q46: You can only upload a single file at a time when using actions/upload-artifact action

- Only directories can be uploaded, not individual files

- False

- True

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/storing-workflow-data-as-artifacts#uploading-build-and-test-artifacts

---

Q47: In job deploy, if you want to access binaries (containing your application) that were created in job build you should

- upload the binaries as artifacts in deploy and download them in build

- cache the binaries in deploy and read the files from cache in build

- upload the binaries as artifacts in build and download them in deploy

- cache the binaries in build and read the files from cache in deploy

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/storing-workflow-data-as-artifacts#comparing-artifacts-and-dependency-caching

---

Q48: A job called job2 is using artifacts created in job1. Therefore it's important to make sure job1 finishes before job2 starts looking for the artifacts. How should you create that dependency?

- this dependency is created implicitly when using actions/download-artifact to download artifact from job1

- create this dependency using the needs keyword in job2

- create this dependency using the concurrency keyword in job2

- create this dependency by defining job2 after job1 in the workflow's .yaml definition

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idneeds

---

Q49: Which is true about Starter Workflows ? (Select three.)

- Starter workflows are provided ready-to-use and cannot be modified or enhanced

- Starter workflows cannot call reusable workflows

- Starter workflows are a paid GitHub feature

- They allow users to leverage ready-to-use (or requiring minimal changes) workflow templates

- GitHub provides and maintains starter workflows for different categories, languages and tooling

- Your organization can create custom starter workflows for users in your organization

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/creating-starter-workflows-for-your-organization

---

Q50: Secrets and configuration variables can be scoped to: (Select three.)

- Multiple repositories that do not share an organization/enterprise

- An environment shared across multiple repositories

- A single repository

- The entire organization, or selected repositories in an organization

- A specific job in a workflow

- An environment in a repository

- A specific workflow in a repository

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/sharing-workflows-secrets-and-runners-with-your-organization#sharing-secrets-and-variables-within-an-organization
