## Practice Exam 51-60

https://ghcertified.com/questions/actions/

Q51: What are the three types of Actions?

- Docker container actions, JavaScript Actions, Composite Actions
- Docker container Actions, JavaScript Actions, Custom Actions
- Python Actions, JavaScript Actions, Custom Actions
- Docker container actions, Java Actions, Composite Actions

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/about-custom-actions#types-of-actions

---

Q52: Is this statement true? Docker container actions are usually slower than JavaScript actions

- False
- True

💡 Docker container actions are slower than JavaScript actions

---

Q53: When creating a custom GitHub Action you have to store the source code in .github/workflows directory

- Only if the action is reusable
- True
- Only for Docker container actions
- False

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/about-custom-actions#choosing-a-location-for-your-action

---

Q54: When creating custom GitHub Actions - in what file does all the action metadata have to be defined?
Metadata examples: name, description, outputs or required inputs

- In the action.yml or action.yaml file in the action repository
- It's edited in GitHub Marketplace UI when published for sharing
- In the repository README file
- In the action.yml or action.yaml file in the action repository, but it is not required if the action is not meant to be shared and used by the public

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions

---

Q55: A workflow was initially run on commit A and failed. You fixed the workflow with the subsequent commit B. When you re-run that workflow it will run with code from which commit?

- It will trigger two workflows, one with code from commit A and one with code from commit B

- It will run with code from commit A

- It will run with code from commit B

- You cannot re-run workflows in GitHub Actions. You have to trigger a new workflow which will run with latest changes

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/re-running-workflows-and-jobs#about-re-running-workflows-and-jobs

---

Q56: How can you require manual approvals by a maintainer if the workflow run is targeting the production environment?

- Using branch protection rules
- Setting the required reviewers in the production workflow
- Manual approvals are not supported by GitHub Actions
- Using deployment protection rules

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment

---

Q57: Which is true about environments?

- Each workflow can reference a single environment.
- Each job in a workflow can reference a maximum of two environments.
- Each job in a workflow can reference a single environment.
- Each workflow can reference a maximum of two environments.

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/concepts/workflows-and-actions/deployment-environments

---

Q58: When using GitHub Actions to access resources in one of the cloud providers (such as AWS, Azure or GCP) the safest and recommended way to authenticate is

- Using OIDC
- Using Vault
- Storing access keys in variables
- Storing access keys in secrets

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect

---

Q59: Your open-source publicly available repository contains a workflow with a pull_request event trigger. How can you require approvals for workflow runs triggered from forks of your repository?

- Setup branch protection rules for the repository
- Setup required approvals for fork runs in the repository
- The workflow will not trigger for forks if using pull_request event. If you want to do that you should use fork_pull_request event trigger with require-approval flag.
- Setup deployment protection rules for the repository

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/approving-workflow-runs-from-public-forks#about-workflow-runs-from-public-forks

---

Q60: Which of the following default environment variables contains the name of the person or app that initiated the workflow run?

- GITHUB_ACTOR
- GITHUB_USER
- GITHUB_WORKFLOW
- GITHUB_REPOSITORY

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environment-variables#default-environment-variables
