## Practice Exam 61-70

https://ghcertified.com/questions/actions/

---

Q61: Which of the following are default environment variables in GitHub Actions? (Select three.)

- GITHUB_ORGANIZATION
- GITHUB_REPOSITORY
- GITHUB_USER
- GITHUB_TOKEN
- GITHUB_WORKFLOW
- GITHUB_ACTOR

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/variables#default-environment-variables

---

Q62: Your organization defines a secret SomeSecret, however when you reference that secret in a workflow using ${{ secrets.SomeSecret }} it provides a different value than expected. What may be the reason for that?

- ${{ secrets.SomeSecret }} expression is only used for repository scoped secrets
- You need to use the GitHub API to access organization scoped secrets
- The secret SomeSecret is also declared in enterprise scope
- The secret SomeSecret is also declared in repository scope

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#naming-your-secrets

---

Q63: Which is a correct way to print a debug message?

- echo "::debug::Watch out here!"
- echo "Watch out here!" >> $GITHUB_DEBUG
- echo ":debug:Watch out here!"
- echo "::debug::message=Watch out here!"

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#example-setting-a-debug-message

---

Q64: How can organizations which are using GitHub Enterprise Server enable automatic syncing of third party GitHub Actions hosted on GitHub.com to their GitHub Enterprise Server instance?

- GitHub Enterprise Server has access to all GitHub.com Actions by default
- GitHub Enterprise Server cannot use GitHub.com Actions because of it's on-premise nature and no internet access
- Using GitHub Connect
- Using actions-sync tool

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.6/admin/github-actions/managing-access-to-actions-from-githubcom/enabling-automatic-access-to-githubcom-actions-using-github-connect

---

Q65: Where can you find network connectivity logs for a GitHub self-hosted-runner?

- In the job run logs of a job that ran on that Runner
- In the \_diag folder directly on the runner machine
- In the job run logs of a job that ran on that Runner with debug logging enabled
- On GitHub.com on that specific Runner's page

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/monitoring-and-troubleshooting-self-hosted-runners#checking-self-hosted-runner-network-connectivity

---

Q66: How can you validate that your GitHub self-hosted-runner can access all required GitHub services?

- Using a GitHub provided script on the runner machine
- By using the predefined GitHub Actions workflow network-connectivity.yml
- By trying to access the runner machine by ssh to validate the network connectivity
- GitHub will validate the network connectivity automatically when the runner application is installed on the runner machine

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/monitoring-and-troubleshooting-self-hosted-runners#checking-self-hosted-runner-network-connectivity

---

Q67: Which is the correct way of triggering a job only if configuration variable MY_VAR has the value of MY_VALUE?

- It's not possible because configuration variables cannot be used in if conditionals

- It's not possible because configuration variables cannot be used in job level if conditionals

- By creating the following conditional on job level

```yaml
my-job:
  if: ${{ vars.MY_VAR }} == 'MY_VALUE'
```

- By creating the following conditional on job level

```yaml
my-job:
  if: ${{ vars.MY_VAR == 'MY_VALUE' }}
```

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/contexts#example-usage-of-the-vars-context

---

Q68: To run a step only if the secret MY_SECRET has been set, you can:

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#example-using-secrets

---

Q69: How can you use the GitHub API to download workflow run logs?

- HEAD /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/logs
- GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/logs
- POST /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/logs
- PUT /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/logs

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/workflow-runs?apiVersion=2022-11-28#download-workflow-run-logs

---

Q70: How can you use the GitHub API to create or update a repository secret?

- HEAD /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/secrets/{secret_name}
- GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/secrets/{secret_name}
- PUT /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/secrets/{secret_name}
- POST /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/secrets/{secret_name}

💡 https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/secrets?create-or-update-a-repository-secret=&apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-or-update-a-repository-secret
